README.md, before:

# access_lint [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/accesslint/access_lint.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/accesslint/access_lint) [![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/access_lint.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/access_lint) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/repos/52c4c7ca6956804bb2000905/badges/5a971515dcfd43cf57e1/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/52c4c7ca6956804bb2000905/feed) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/ckundo/access_lint/badge.png?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/ckundo/access_lint?branch=master)

Run web accessibility audits on urls or files, from the command line or within Ruby.

## About

AccessLint uses the [Accessibility Developer Tools](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools) javascript library to make assertions on the DOM via PhantomJS. The rules that are applied are [listed below](#rules).

## Installation

First, install PhantomJS ([full guide](http://phantomjs.org/)). On OS X:

    $ brew install phantomjs

Then install the rubygem:

    $ gem install access_lint

## Usage

### Command Line

From the command line, specify a url or filename to be audited:

    $ access_lint audit http://twitter.com # url or a path to a file
    # results ...

### Ruby

Run the audit from a Ruby application like so

    $ irb
    > require 'access_lint'
    => true
    > AccessLint::Audit.new('http://twitter.com').run
    => results ...

### Results Object

    {
        "PASS": [                                                           # Status group
            {
                "element_names": ["<p class=\"foo\">relevant element</p>"], # applicable DOM elements
                "severity": "WARNING",                                      # 'WARNING' or 'SEVERE'
                "status": "PASS",                                           # 'PASS', 'FAIL', or 'NA'
                "title": "Some description"                                 # rule description
            },
            { ... }
        ],
        "NA": [ { ... } ],
        "FAIL": [ { ... }]
    ]

## Rules

For full descriptions of the audit rules, visit the [Accessibility Developer Tools project wiki](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules).

Code                       | Title
---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------
[AX_ARIA_01][AX_ARIA_01]   | Elements with ARIA roles must use a valid, non-abstract ARIA role.
[AX_ARIA_02][AX_ARIA_02]   | ARIA attributes which refer to other elements by ID should refer to elements which exist in the DOM.
[AX_ARIA_03][AX_ARIA_03]   | Elements with ARIA roles must have all required attributes for that role.
[AX_ARIA_04][AX_ARIA_04]   | ARIA state and property values must be valid.
[AX_ARIA_05][AX_ARIA_05]   | role=main should only appear on significant elements.
[AX_ARIA_06][AX_ARIA_06]   | aria-owns should not be used if ownership is implicit in the DOM.
[AX_ARIA_07][AX_ARIA_07]   | An element's ID must not be present in more that one aria-owns attribute at any time.
[AX_AUDIO_01][AX_AUDIO_01] | Audio elements should have controls.
[AX_COLOR_01][AX_COLOR_01] | Text elements should have a reasonable contrast ratio.
[AX_FOCUS_03][AX_FOCUS_03] | Avoid positive integer values for tabIndex.
[AX_HTML_01][AX_HTML_01]   | The web page should have the content's human language indicated in the markup.
[AX_IMAGE_01][AX_IMAGE_01] | Meaningful images should not be used in element backgrounds.
[AX_TEXT_01][AX_TEXT_01]   | Controls and media elements should have labels.
[AX_TEXT_02][AX_TEXT_02]   | Images should have an alt attribute.
[AX_TEXT_04][AX_TEXT_04]   | The purpose of each link should be clear from the link text.
[AX_TITLE_01][AX_TITLE_01] | The web page should have a title that describes topic or purpose.
[AX_VIDEO_01][AX_VIDEO_01] | Video elements should use <track> elements to provide captions.

[AX_ARIA_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_01
[AX_ARIA_02]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_02
[AX_ARIA_03]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_03
[AX_ARIA_04]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_04
[AX_ARIA_05]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_05
[AX_ARIA_06]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_06
[AX_ARIA_07]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_07
[AX_AUDIO_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_audio_01
[AX_COLOR_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_color_01
[AX_FOCUS_03]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_focus_03
[AX_HTML_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_html_01
[AX_IMAGE_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_image_01
[AX_TEXT_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_text_01
[AX_TEXT_02]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_text_02
[AX_TEXT_04]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_text_04
[AX_TITLE_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_title_01
[AX_VIDEO_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_video_01

## Roadmap

Visit the project backlog: <https://www.pivotaltracker.com/s/projects/985186>.

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request

Commit message:

updates README with the current audit rules

README.md, after:

# access_lint [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/accesslint/access_lint.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/accesslint/access_lint) [![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/access_lint.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/access_lint) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/repos/52c4c7ca6956804bb2000905/badges/5a971515dcfd43cf57e1/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/52c4c7ca6956804bb2000905/feed) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/ckundo/access_lint/badge.png?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/ckundo/access_lint?branch=master)

Run web accessibility audits on urls or files, from the command line or within Ruby.

## About

AccessLint uses the [Accessibility Developer Tools](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools) javascript library to make assertions on the DOM via PhantomJS. The rules that are applied are [listed below](#rules).

## Installation

First, install PhantomJS ([full guide](http://phantomjs.org/)). On OS X:

    $ brew install phantomjs

Then install the rubygem:

    $ gem install access_lint

## Usage

### Command Line

From the command line, specify a url or filename to be audited:

    $ access_lint audit http://twitter.com # url or a path to a file
    # results ...

### Ruby

Run the audit from a Ruby application like so

    $ irb
    > require 'access_lint'
    => true
    > AccessLint::Audit.new('http://twitter.com').run
    => results ...

### Results Object

    {
        "PASS": [                                                           # Status group
            {
                "element_names": ["<p class=\"foo\">relevant element</p>"], # applicable DOM elements
                "severity": "WARNING",                                      # 'WARNING' or 'SEVERE'
                "status": "PASS",                                           # 'PASS', 'FAIL', or 'NA'
                "title": "Some description"                                 # rule description
            },
            { ... }
        ],
        "NA": [ { ... } ],
        "FAIL": [ { ... }]
    ]

## Rules

For full descriptions of the audit rules, visit the [Accessibility Developer Tools project wiki](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules).

Code                       | Title
---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------
[AX_ARIA_01][AX_ARIA_01]   | Elements with ARIA roles must use a valid, non-abstract ARIA role.
[AX_ARIA_02][AX_ARIA_02]   | ARIA attributes which refer to other elements by ID should refer to elements which exist in the DOM.
[AX_ARIA_03][AX_ARIA_03]   | Elements with ARIA roles must have all required attributes for that role.
[AX_ARIA_04][AX_ARIA_04]   | ARIA state and property values must be valid.
[AX_ARIA_05][AX_ARIA_05]   | role=main should only appear on significant elements.
[AX_ARIA_06][AX_ARIA_06]   | aria-owns should not be used if ownership is implicit in the DOM.
[AX_ARIA_07][AX_ARIA_07]   | An element's ID must not be present in more that one aria-owns attribute at any time.
[AX_ARIA_08][AX_ARIA_08]   | Elements with ARIA roles must ensure required owned elements are present.
[AX_ARIA_09][AX_ARIA_09]   | Elements with ARIA roles must be in the correct scope.
[AX_ARIA_10][AX_ARIA_10]   | This element has an unsupported ARIA attribute.
[AX_ARIA_11][AX_ARIA_11]   | This element has an invalid ARIA attribute.
[AX_ARIA_12][AX_ARIA_12]   | This element does not support ARIA roles, states and properties.
[AX_AUDIO_01][AX_AUDIO_01] | Audio elements should have controls.
[AX_COLOR_01][AX_COLOR_01] | Text elements should have a reasonable contrast ratio.
[AX_FOCUS_01][AX_FOCUS_01] | These elements are focusable but either invisible or obscured by another element.
[AX_FOCUS_02][AX_FOCUS_02] | Elements with onclick handlers must be focusable.
[AX_FOCUS_03][AX_FOCUS_03] | Avoid positive integer values for tabIndex.
[AX_HTML_01][AX_HTML_01]   | The web page should have the content's human language indicated in the markup.
[AX_HTML_02][AX_HTML_02]   | An element's ID must be unique in the DOM.
[AX_IMAGE_01][AX_IMAGE_01] | Meaningful images should not be used in element backgrounds.
[AX_TEXT_01][AX_TEXT_01]   | Controls and media elements should have labels.
[AX_TEXT_02][AX_TEXT_02]   | Images should have an alt attribute.
[AX_TEXT_04][AX_TEXT_04]   | The purpose of each link should be clear from the link text.
[AX_TITLE_01][AX_TITLE_01] | The web page should have a title that describes topic or purpose.
[AX_VIDEO_01][AX_VIDEO_01] | Video elements should use <track> elements to provide captions.

[AX_ARIA_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_01
[AX_ARIA_02]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_02
[AX_ARIA_03]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_03
[AX_ARIA_04]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_04
[AX_ARIA_05]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_05
[AX_ARIA_06]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_06
[AX_ARIA_07]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_07
[AX_ARIA_08]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_08
[AX_ARIA_09]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_09
[AX_ARIA_10]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_10
[AX_ARIA_11]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_11
[AX_ARIA_12]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_aria_12
[AX_AUDIO_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_audio_01
[AX_COLOR_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_color_01
[AX_FOCUS_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_focus_01
[AX_FOCUS_02]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_focus_02
[AX_FOCUS_03]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_focus_03
[AX_HTML_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_html_01
[AX_HTML_02]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_html_02
[AX_IMAGE_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_image_01
[AX_TEXT_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_text_01
[AX_TEXT_02]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_text_02
[AX_TEXT_04]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_text_04
[AX_TITLE_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_title_01
[AX_VIDEO_01]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/accessibility-developer-tools/wiki/Audit-Rules#ax_video_01

## Roadmap

Visit the project backlog: <https://www.pivotaltracker.com/s/projects/985186>.

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request
